The Adult and Child Numbers Together

Broadly speaking, the adult natal year number expresses itself as positive potential. Traits of growth and self-actualization in the physical, mental and spiritual dimensions of our lives are associated with this number. If such traits or potentials are not visible or expressed in a person’s way of being, it is likely that there is either a self-limiting factor or some outside influence impinging on them. This would also account for any imbalances or illness associated with the particular natal year number.

The child natal month number also expresses potentials, but because it is by nature more dependent on environment and circumstances than the natal year, there is a greater tendency to weaknesses, imbalances and general stress symptoms. It may be that a person is living out of their natal month number experience in terms of relationships, jobs, preferences and responsibilities. They may function well in all these circumstances and arenas, but not without risking a greater tendency to stress and related imbalances in their lives.

This does not imply that the child number influence is to be ignored and only the natal year number enhanced. In fact, where the natal month number shows its greatest usefulness is in the way we learn to promote self-nurturing. Direction and action are best served by living from the natal year experience while nurturing is best served by understanding the interaction between both the child month and the adult year natal number energetics. It is important to understand this interaction if you truly want to create a life that is balanced, meaningful and satisfying.

Like the general guidelines presented for the transformation interactions that occur when the child natal month number resides in a certain house, there are similar guidelines for the transformation interactions between child and adult natal numbers. These guidelines are useful irrespective of the more particular elemental mix.

Once again it is the mother–son and ko cycle principles within the Law of Five Transformations that are at work here. 