Steps to Minimize Danger in Travel
Practically speaking, you may often find you have to travel in
unfavorable directions. When this happens, you should check both the year
and the month: if that direction is dangerous within one map, but generally
safe within the other map, then you can go ahead, only exercising a little
extra caution. If both the month and the year are unfavorable for the
particular travel direction, then you can at least choose a day which is more
favorable.
If you must travel in a dangerous direction, another way to minimize
that danger is to go and come back within two weeks: this means you will
be traveling in both directions within the same half-cycle of the moon. In
that case it is easier to keep your condition strong and your judgment clear.
Short trips are preferable to long trips as is moving within the same latitude.
Actually changing your address and moving permanently is very difficult if
the year and month are not favorable; usually you will find that you
eventually move back again, unable to accomplish what you had tried to do
with that move. If the year indicates a dangerous direction, it may take 2 or
2 1/2 years before you reestablish equilibrium; until then, you will tend to
experience great frustrations and failures.
In addition, there are three steps you can take to avoid or minimize this
type of danger in traveling:
. Bring a Companion – Take someone with you for whose sign this
is not a dangerous direction of travel. Even better, have that person make all
the arrangements: let her choose the time of leaving, the exact travel route
and method, and take the lead when you go (you can just follow and carry
the luggage). Since her energy nature is not counteracted by the present
atmospheric flow, her judgment will be clearer and you will more easily
avoid delays, mistakes, and errors in intuition that could cause accidents.
. Change Your Travel Route - Rather than moving directly and
suddenly to the new environment, plan a more indirect route that will take
you to your destination by way of several less dangerous directions. For
example, if you are going southwest, say from Boston to Los Angeles, you
can stop first in San Francisco and then proceed south to Los
96
Angeles. You can also go down to Miami and then fly due west. In this
way, you can cushion the effects of the change in environments and
acclimatize your condition to the new atmospheric conditions.
. Change Your Diet - For three or four days before your trip, you can
begin to eat in a way that harmonizes more with the environment of your
destination. If you are moving, for example, from a fairly cool, dry place to
a damp, warm climate, you can spend several days eating a little more
summer style of food, including more salad or lightly cooked food, a little
less salt, and so forth. In other words, instead of waiting until you get there
to eat that local type of food and cooking, begin now, and you will already
be better adjusted once you arrive.
This third method, however, is very difficult unless you are already
eating generally good food. If you are eating dairy food, fatty food or any
oily, floury food, even though you may crave certain adjustment types of
foods and begin eating according to that new climate, your condition will
not react quickly. For quick, immediate adjustment of your condition, you
have to be very clean and balanced.
When your condition is good you can anticipate every single danger or
opportunity with your intuition - and interestingly enough, if your
intuition is working well it works exactly this way. In other words, this
Nine Star Ki map is not an arbitrary invention or artificial creation of
intellectual minds, but is actually a map of the way ki is moving, which the
biological, spiritual faculty of human intuition can also detect.
When you are eating well and feeling very clear, then you intuitively
know what directions and what activities or initiatives are dangerous or
auspicious, without having to check different charts. The best way is to use
both; first use you intuition to make yecision, then check out how well that
correlates with what you have learnedour d, and then try it out and see
how it actually happens.