Business Relationships
Because they are cautious and thoughtful about matters that are important to them, one-water people are excellent in roles that require clear, succinct communication within an organization. They can often paraphrase a vast array of verbiage into a form that just makes the point. However, they can go too far in this respect, cutting back excessively and then expecting people to understand complex concepts with just a few words. In such instances, the enigmatic or cryptic response the one-water person gives may seem very powerful, but what exactly is meant is not clear to anyone but themselves. It is therefore important for them to be receptive enough to be able to elaborate when necessary, and to do so in a way which does not convey disdain.

The one-water person is not a team player in the sense that a two-earth is. They are loners, but generally rely on having some context in which they can operate independently. Consequently, they are excellent at setting limits and establishing boundaries within an organizational structure.

As water nourishes most of what exists on this planet, so it is that one-water people nourish the organizations of which they are part. They energize situations and help keep staff moving. Thus they may be useful in management positions or in some capacity that involves establishing the direction of a plan. They are excellent in developing mission statements and mapping out the interconnections of all the various sub-components of a situation. This does not mean, however, that the one-water person should be viewed as an administrator, for detail can be quite tedious for such people. They are not good at looking for new ideas, but rather for new connections in what is already in place.

Nor are one-waters suited to positions where they are actively involved in the completion of tasks as a primary responsibility. Their forte is reflecting upon what has gone before and bringing their deep insights to bear on the present so that plans for the future may be steered in more meaningful directions. It must be borne in mind, however, that for them meaningfulness will not be determined by other people or by an organization, but by their own experiences. If one-waters find what they are involved with meaningless, they are likely to drop their involvement or just leave. What a one-water needs to guard against is over-reacting in these situations. There are times when they worry too much about things and take tasks or situations to unnecessary depths.

One-water people also do not handle positions which involve heavy physical labour very well, either because they are too thin or sensitive, or because they find such work unacceptable. Of course they will do the work if necessary, but they will somehow convey to those around them that it is not to their liking.

They are often successful in founding an enterprise or business.

Skills:

Yin: The Allocator – containing, setting limits, storing, allocating resources, delineating boundaries, managing resources

Yang: The Motivator – generating, regulating, motivating, energizing, providing direction, reflecting, risk-analysis

Positive:
	Often success as entrepreneur, can be bold, dares to take risks, ventures into the thick of things, can venture without holding back, industrious, persistent, serious, slaves away but with results, ploughs trough the mud, loyal.

Negative:
Lacking in ambition, indolent, line of least resistance.  
