Positive:
Strong libido, passionate, no flirt, if committed than very strongly so

Negative:
Many love affairs, difficulty with commitment


Love Relationships
Although one-water people enjoy solitude, they want to feel free to choose to be alone. Thus there is no contradiction in the fact that they may like companionship. However, companionship to them is not necessarily defined as doing something with their partner. The companion to a one-water needs to be like a vessel or a cup. The cup contains, but is not a part of, the water. Thus, the one-water’s partner must get used to the idea that they are with but not necessarily a part of the one-water’s life.

This does not mean that such a person should feel discounted or any less significant in the one-water person’s life. One-waters are not people to choose partners lightly. They ask questions, check attributes, reflect deeply about the person they are considering as a partner. Once committed, they settle in and hold on. They may, on the surface, act unperturbed or nonchalant, but underneath they possess a love which runs deep.

If the involvement is sexual, the bond between one-waters and their partners is even more powerful as the exchange of sexual energy is one of the primary ways in which one-waters learn more about themselves and deepen their spirituality. Because of this, there may be a tendency to over-emphasize sex in their lives, either by minimizing or exaggerating its importance. If they are sexually rebuffed or disappointed, one-waters may rigidly abstain from sexual involvement. On the other hand, they may have such a strong sex drive that their passions are animalistic. The men of this number may act like gigolos, while the women maintain an entourage of several lovers or conjure ways of experiencing sexual pleasure. Because a one-water’s experience of sexuality runs so deep, and as sexual identity and security are often major issues in the lives of other people, a one-water’s personal knowledge and expertise in this area of life makes them good as counsellors for both men and women.

A lesson one-waters should learn in their love relationships is detachment. Once involved, especially sexually, one-water people can be extremely possessive. As a result, they may not only lose their own sense of self-identity, but also sacrifice or neglect other important relationships in their lives. They also have a tendency to be excessively lavish with money and gifts and thus can heedlessly squander whatever savings they have accumulated. Such behaviour often comes about when the one-water fears being abandoned.

One-waters must come to terms with the fact that their need for solitude is best satisfied when they recognize how companionship can create the support necessary for that need to be met. Being more verbal in communicating their appreciation and love for their partner will not only create a greater sense of closeness, but will also possibly alleviate their tendency to cling. If such issues are not addressed, one-waters and their partners may be locked in a relationship for years; the one-waters feeling isolated and misunderstood, their partners feeling trapped.

 People born under this sign are usually very interested in the opposite sex and may have many love affairs. However, they are discreet and keep their personal lives confidential.