One-water represents the end of the nine-year descending spiral through time. The word ‘spiral’ is used here rather than ‘cycle’ because it points to the fact that while the energetics of what comes around through time bear similar characteristics and appear the same, history does not in fact repeat itself. Something new is always added, albeit in keeping with the dynamics of the transformations present. A cycle is a closed circuit. A spiral is open-ended, but moves in a cycle-like path.

The water transformation phase is associated with winter. What has been created, developed and matured now experiences its own dissolution. Winter is a time of year when life recedes deep into the ground, and movement is subtle, if present at all, while the thaw of spring is awaited.

Thus the one-water is a deep-thinking person who is rather enigmatic. There is a quality of solitude that pervades their being. In social situations, usually to ease those around them, they may appear chatty and superficial. They will generally not say what is on their minds as their natural brilliance takes them to deeper and more subtle levels than they expect others to be able to understand. Although generally correct in this assumption, it nevertheless needs close scrutiny, as this attitude can lead them to be opinionated and contemptuous of others. The enigmatic aura that they project even while in conversation can make others feel a bit uncertain as to what the one-water is really about. People may try to be liked by one-waters for fear of becoming the subject of their disdain. Thus, one-water people need to be more skilful with, and develop more equanimity about, their opinions, lest they be viewed as bigots.

Because they keep their deepest thoughts and plans to themselves, one-water people’s actions will often seem abrupt and sudden, even though they have been planning things for some time. Ask a one-water person a question that involves consideration and you may have to wait some time before the answer bobs to the surface. Ironically, although deep-thinking, if they are put into a position where what is going on is not known or familiar to them and they have not been able to formulate their opinions clearly, one-water people may find themselves swept along by the momentum of the situation. Thus, they can fall prey to a herd or mob mentality, something they will tend to regret deeply once they have a chance to settle down and be more reflective. Their natural wilfulness is so intense that in such circumstances, having made a sudden change of direction, the one-water finds it difficult to maintain equilibrium.

Although water has its own inherent properties, its location, force and movement is dependent upon the circumstances around it. Thus a one-water displays a fluid adaptability. Regardless of the circumstances, a one-water can fit in and play the part, and will usually do so whether they like it or not. When their attention and personal involvement is demanded in situations not to their liking, they will reluctantly perform as required, lying and flattering if necessary just to keep things superficially satisfactory.

Because they are sensitive to the effects of their environment and circumstances, and because of their natural fluidity, one-waters usually experience life as somewhat constrained but always changing. They need to strive hard to know themselves because their life experience is constantly shifting. Their superficial ways conceal a deeper desire to come to terms with the significance of all the happenings in their life. They need to develop and maintain a well-defined detachment to accomplish this. Their insights can be furthered by paying more attention to what others have to say, something which does not come easily to them. If they cannot come around to a more detached view of life, they will constantly experience upset and every change will be viewed as one more hardship to endure.

The one-water person may appear as sad or meekly reserved. Yet they have a thirst for life and living. They appear drab or rather colourless, particularly in their dress but they actually enjoy being colourful and can bring up from their depths a vivaciousness which is absolutely magnetizing. Although they can be disdainful of others and appear judgemental or withdrawn on social occasions, still the experience of being at such a gathering means a lot to them at a deeper level. For, although one-waters like solitude, they do not like to be excluded or isolated. If a one-water can draw up and project even a glimpse of joy in a situation, not only will this bring delight to others, but as it is reflected back to them, it will begin to permeate more of their experiences.

The fluidity of a one-water will create a life that is varied and challenging. These people will usually find that their circumstances change a lot. Family, finances and overall security continually change for them and if they resist or deny such change, freezing up rather than ‘going with the flow’, they risk creating unnecessary stress for themselves. One-waters may also find themselves moving or travelling frequently in their lifetime. It is only natural for such people to be cautious in their undertakings, in a sense trying to stem the tide of the ebb and flow in their life. To resist or deny such change and movement, however, will create in them a fear of life that can be paralysing and cause stress and dis-ease.

This color is not really white, but more transparent like water; a person born under this sign has a more “transparent” personality, in that he or she can very freely, flexibly adapt himself or herself to any other personality or situation. This character is usually easygoing and agreeable, often involved in writing or some form of communication and creative work. If this person becomes too weak, that adaptability can grow extreme to the point of being noncommittal, indecisive, and lacking in clear opinions or direction.

Although 1 Water people appear gentle and reserved on the surface, inside they are strong. They are good listeners, but often don’t reveal their true feelings, and are good at keeping secrets. One Waters have clear insight and are able to see the front and back of situations. In conversation, they are sensitive to other peoples’ feelings and tend to adapt their responses accordingly. Their judgment is often clear and their actions deliberate, and they make good leaders.



