GetChildNatalHouseTransformation / Parent Child Relationship

Supports:

When the mother comes to visit the son, she usually has opinions about how he is living. When a person has a child natal number that is the mother to the transformation of the house that the child number resides in, they will usually be over-vigilant, preoccupied with their surroundings, and more opinionated than people with other configurations. Such people need to be aware of their over-critical predisposition. Their expectations may be igher than those around them, and also their level of elation or dissapointment

IsSupported

Here is a situation where a person may have difficulty breaking from their dependency and childhood patterns. In this particular configuration, it is as if the child does not have enough inner strength to move out of the house. Thus in childhood or when under stress, such a person may feel complacent about their situation. They may complain about life's experiences, yet have little motivation to take any concrete steps towards changing things. At times others may want to shake such a person up, a desire which in many cases is appropriate, as these people have a limited view of their potential.

Controls:

When an element is out of balance dramatically, it has a stifling effect on the transformation that it controls. However, in this particular situation there is a more unfamiliar dynamic. Here the transformation that would normally be in control is being contained by the transformation it controls.

Metaphorically speaking, the child is living in a house where it is being constrained, almost against its will or natural tendencies. The result is a person who in childhood, or under stress when the child natal number is activated, tends to be rebellious or explosive. There is a constant urge to assert themselves in order to shed their feelings of being trapped. Thus the abruptness or emotional response this person has when confronted with unpleasant experiences has more to do with internal psychological mechanisms than a clear response to outside stimulation; hence the response can be disproportionate to what the situation actually warrants. A person who understands this aspect of themselves is less likely to blame or alienate others at such moments.

Iscontrolled:

Here is a situation where the child, or person in stress feels rightly controlled. There is a tendency towards resignation, a feeling of ‘This is how it is and why should it be any different?’ This should not be viewed as complacency, however, as when the child natal number resides in the mother’s house. Here, there can be more of a sense of resentment, as well as a strong desire to break free. Whereas the child residing in the mother’s house may need some prodding, the person in this situation needs support as they strive to overcome ‘impossibility’ thinking.

Sibling

Hosue of five

Here is a situation where, at the time of birth, the child and adult number both reside in the House of Five. Regardless of the transformation of the number, therefore, the energetics of five-earth and the House of Five must be viewed as strong factors in the person’s life.

The lives of such individuals seem constant. Whereas for others, at the end of the second cycle of nine or when there is a move towards greater independence, the experience is one of making a shift from one energetic to another, there is no such transition here. Life just goes on feeling the way it always has been. Thus childhood patterns are carried over into adult life. Dealing with authority may be like dealing with one’s mother and father. Because one transformation only is represented there is seemingly no contrast in experience. Thus it can be difficult for such a person to understand someone else’s point of view, or to conceive of someone experiencing life in any other way than the way they themselves experience it. Thus such people can be stubborn and seemingly arrogant.

This configuration also means that their strengths are their weaknesses. Because of the strong House of Five dominance they can be uncertain about themselves and overdo things. If they remain balanced however, they will have all the positive qualities of the transformation plus the energy of the five-earth house.

On the physical level, it is more than likely that such a person will be hypoglycaemic. The dietary guidance and stress management techniques recommended for their particular transformation should be used. Psychoactive substances can be particularly injurious to such people.

Same Element, different number:

Because the energetic of the house is a more yin or yang aspect of the same transformation as the child natal month number, a person might experience a sense of wholeness from this combination. Such a person may have a generally relaxed demeanour — they may even appear to be masterful when handling stress. Rather than trying to change situations if they are not in keeping with what they want, such people may be more willing to work with things as they are. Thus they may be very compliant in most circumstances.

It is only because we are focusing on the relationship between the child natal number and the houses that the more challenging aspects of these relationships are being looked at. Such challenges should not be viewed as either good or bad. Rather, when in childhood, or later when stress re-evokes childhood patterns, the struggle from dependence and co-dependency towards independence must take into account the house and the house/natal number factor. This is also true for the natal year number, but in the case of the child natal month number, there is more of a sense of history to work through.

Looked at more objectively each house has the potential to support growth and maturation. As a number migrates into a particular house it becomes a matter of seizing the moment, taking from the situation what it offers. From the child natal month perspective, such a situation offers us the opportunity to loosen our fixation on the limitations we are experiencing.
Now let us look at the remainder of the houses more closely.